Finally consider the following use case,
do you know Animate.css?
This is a nice little library of animations you can use,
so here you basically get some animations you can use out of the box by simply attaching some css
classes to your elements
and if we visit the github page, we can see a detailed well explanation on how it works.
So I want to use it here, I'll grab the link from the CDN here and then go into my index.html file where I
want to attach it in my head here, like this,
so now I got my CDN import here attached and then if we have a look, we can see that we can use
any animation from this package by adding the animated class and then the name of the animation we want to
use to an element.
Now I want to use such animation when adding my element,
the problem we have of course is let's say I went to animate this newly added transition here which
initially appears, the problem we have is whatever name we specify here
vuejs will always use this name and then the enter, enter-active and so on classes.
Now for this package, this will not work because we need to add the animated class
and then let's say the bounce class if we wanted to use that.
So how could we tell vuejs to use different classes than the ones it uses by default?
Well with some extra attributes we can set up on the transition element here,
I'll show you which ones. On this transition element, we already set up name and appear but we could
configure it even more,
we can override the default classes
vuejs attaches.
So if we set up name like fade here, it would add fade entrance on but we don't have to use these
classes,
instead I can remove name here and explicitly tell vuejs which class to attach
at which point of time.
So we can tell it the
enter class here, by adding this attribute we could say well the default is always v-enter or if we
set up a name, our name enter,
we could add any class we want to attach here.
Now I don't want to attach a class here because I don't need to,
I'm interested in the enter-active class,
so I want to override this
and here, I want to attach the animated class,
this is the one I always need to attach to play animation with this framework, with this library
and then here, I want to use the bounce animation,
so I will also add bounce here, and this should already be enough to animate in with this bounce animation.
Now we can also override of course the leave class,
I don't need a specific class here which is set for this one frame but I do need a specific class for
the active case, so when it is playing the animation. Here I want to,
well let's pick a different one maybe not bounce, let's say here we want to use shake,
so I will add shake here.
Now that I'm telling vuejs don't use your default, don't use v-enter, v-enter-active class,
don't use my name-active, my name-enter-active class and so on,
instead use these classes here at these points of time.
Now for these empty classes here, we need to remove them
otherwise we will get an error
because vuejs would try to attach something which isn't there.
I just wanted to show you that you have all these four configuration items at your hand but of course
you don't need to use them
and if you don't use them, don't set them up to be empty here.
So with this change, let's view our application by reloading and there you see it's playing the animation
we wanted it to play, jumping and bouncing around.
One thing to keep in mind here though is it looks like when setting up your own classes here, appear
does not work with them, so that looks like it only works when used with the default way or the default
classes.
Maybe something which will get fixed but didn't work at the point of time I recorded this video though.